[ Background Sounds ]
[ Applause ]
>> Hello, everyone.
My name is Georgios Kontaxis and
together with Katie Skinner, we
are both very excited to be here
today to tell you about privacy
and your apps.
We are members of privacy
engineering at Apple.
And we work with teams across
the company to deliver privacy
into our products.
Here at Apple, we care about
privacy.
And this quote from Tim Cook
reflects our philosophy.
We believe that privacy is a
very basic foundation for a
great app ecosystem.
We think that great apps should
offer the best user experience,
while respecting user privacy.
So, today you will hear some
best practices to design your
apps with privacy in mind.
If you have existing apps you
will be very interested in
updates to our platforms, which
might affect you.
And you'll learn about some
exciting new privacy features
that Apple is launching this
year.
We know that your apps may rely
on user data to deliver great
features.
So, it is important that you
explain to your users how you're
using their data, so that they
understand what is going on and
they feel comfortable engaging
with your app.
Also, you need to get their
consent in the right context.
For example, as they're about to
use a feature that relies on
their data.
iOS has built in mediation
mechanisms for transparency and
consent.
And you should consider how you
can best take advantage of them.
iOS also offers users control
over their privacy.
So, your apps need to handle
cases based on different privacy
decisions the user might make,
including changing their mind at
another time.
Here's an example of how Maps is
using the iOS build-in
mechanisms to prompt for the
users' location.
As you can see when prompting,
Maps will clearly explain the
use cases, navigation, nearby
search results, and estimated
travel times.
And if the user chooses not to
grant access to their location,
Maps is able to handle that
gracefully and provide a subset
of its features.
If the user allows Maps to use
the location, they will be aware
each time it happens, because
there's an indicator in the iOS
status bar to let them know.
And they can always go into
setting, privacy, location
services, see that Maps is using
their location and perhaps
revise their decision.
We also know your apps may rely
on identifiers.
For example, to personalize the
user experience, or to keep
track of feedback.
At the same time, your users
might wonder whether their
actions in your app are tied to
their device, or to their
person.
Luckily, there are great ways to
offer privacy friendly choices,
so that users feel comfortable
engaging with your apps.
Specifically, identifiers can be
random, they can be anonymous,
they can be short-lived, and
they can be easy to reset.
And iOS offers built-in API for
you to be able to generate such
identifiers.
So, you should adopt those
instead of building your own.
As an example, consider the
Universally Unique Identifier.
It is a random 128-bit value,
which you can generate using a
swift code shown here.
As you can see, three
consecutives calls using this
API, will return three random,
unrelated values.
And for example, you can
leverage UUIDs to generate
short-lived identifiers.
For example, you can associate a
new UUID with each session in
your app.
Another example is the vendor
identifier.
It is a more stable identifier,
because it is consistent across
all apps associated with the
same team.
As you can see here in the
example table, two apps that
belong to the same team, will
generate the same vendor
identifier, while a third app
belonging to a different team
will have its own.
Also, keep in mind that if all
apps belonging to a particular
team are uninstalled from the
user devices and later
reinstalled, they will get a new
identifier.
Now, let's talk about collecting
data to enable your features.
Collecting data can be a
benefit, but also carries risks.
So, users might be uncomfortable
giving too much of their data if
you don't sufficiently justify
the purpose.
And also, consider the burden on
your end to manage all that data
and keep it safe.
So, you should consider
aggregating data, summarizing
it.
And extracting only the
information you need.
As an alternative, think whether
a sample of the data will
suffice, or whether you can
process the data on the device
instead of sending their own
values to your server.
And later in this talk, you will
hear about some great new ways
to process data on device using
iOS hardware and software.
Collecting raw data might reveal
additional information about the
users.
And as mentioned, this is
information that neither your
users, nor you might want to
have.
As an example, consider you have
a new feature in your app and
you need to collect feedback to
see how successful it is.
So, you could instrument your
app to send back a timestamp to
your server each time users
engage with the feature.
And the app would give you the
information that you're after,
but if you were to plot that
data over a timeline, you would
also learn that user 1 is a
morning person because all of
their timestamps are in the
morning.
And user 3 opens your app at
night.
So, another way to collect this
information would be to say,
well I will have my app count
the full number of times that a
particular user engages with my
feature, and sent that count
back to my server once a day.
And that is a more privacy
friendly way to learn the same
information about the feature,
whether it's successful or not.
But if you pay attention, you
might realize that now you know
that user 1 likes your feature
the most among your users.
And that's not the question you
were trying to answer.
So, if you rephrase the question
as how many users engage with my
feature more than 10 times a
day, you could have your app
send back to your server a
booleon flag, yes or no, whether
the user has exceeded that
threshold within the day.
And on your end, on the server,
you could calculate the percent
of the users that have exceeded
the threshold, in this
particular case, 66%.
Keep that percentage on your
server.
Keep track of it over time as it
changes, to understand how your
feature behaves and discard any
user specific data.
So, now let's go over some
updates, which might affect your
apps.
I mentioned earlier that when
apps ask for access to user
data, iOS will prompt users for
their consent.
And there are cases where we
think that users need as much
information as possible to make
this decision.
And your app is responsible for
providing this additional
context.
This additional context is in
the form of purpose strings.
And purposes strings are
included in the prompt shown to
the user by iOS.
Purpose strings are defined as
keys in the info.plist file of
your app.
And you can define those keys in
Xcode, like so.
Keep in mind that those keys are
mandatory.
So, if your app is missing a
purpose string and tries to
access related data, it will
terminate with an error message
indicating which key is missing.
In iOS 10, these are the cases
where purpose strings are
required.
And in iOS 11, we're making
changes to location, photos, and
we're adding a purpose string
for CoreNFC.
Core location has enabled great
features in your apps.
Users appreciate being able to
navigate the world and find
interesting places through their
iOS device.
At the same time, we want users
to always be in control of their
privacy.
So, in iOS 10, apps can ask for
access to the user's location at
all times, or while the app is
in use.
In iOS 11, users will be able to
choose the when to use option at
all times.
[ Applause ]
What this means for you is that
your app will have to account
for cases where the users'
location is not available to
you.
And you need to define
additional purpose strings for
the when to use option.
As a reminder, when asking for
the user location, make sure you
do it in a meaningful way.
Make sure you prompt after the
user has engaged with the
feature that requires the
location, so they understand why
they're being asked for their
location.
When you prompt, make sure your
purpose string provides the
necessary information for the
user to make a good decision.
And if possible, try asking for
When In Use and escalate to
always after the user has some
time to experience your feature.
If you have an app on iOS 10
that does not support the When
In Use option, this is the
prompt a user will see when they
upgrade to iOS 11.
As you can see, they can choose
the When In Use option, but
there is a warning that the app
does not maybe support it.
If you have an app on iOS 10
that does support both the When
In Use and the always option,
this is the prompt you will see.
Both purpose strings will be
included in the prompt shown to
the user.
You should update your apps to
feature a single purpose string.
And you can do that by defining
a single key in your [inaudible]
file.
And that is the always and When
In Use key.
So, now let's talk about photos.
The users photos library
contains a lot of information
and we want you to be able to
leverage that information to
deliver great features.
At the same time, we want to
maintain a high level of user
privacy.
So, this year, we're adding two
new ways for your apps to
interact with the photos
library.
Specifically, users will be able
to open a photo in your app,
without the need for you to
prompt for access to their
entire photos library.
So, this will make them more
comfortable using your app
because they will have better
control over their data.
We're also adding a write only
access to the photos library.
So, for example, if there's a
game that wants to save a
screenshot of the user
achievements, it can prompt for
write, but not read access to
the photos library.
And users might be more willing
to grant that request.
And because of these changes,
when users upgrade their devices
with iOS 11, existing apps will
re-prompt for access to the
photos library.
If you want your users to be
able to take advantage of this
ability to open photos in your
app without being prompted, you
can adopt the added process
image picker, and you find out
more, please visit the photo
session.
This is a great way to add a
photo in a users' profile, or
use a photo in some other rare
action in your app.
Now, this is in the write-only
case.
There's a prompt and a purpose
string.
So, if you want to adopt this,
you need to declare the purpose
string and make sure you provide
enough information for the user
to decide whether they want to
use this feature.
Now, let's talk about CoreNFC.
CoreNFC is a new and exciting
iOS 11 framework, which allows
your app to use NFC reader mode
to interact with nearby NFC
tags.
So, now you can use NFC tags in
your app in novel and
interesting ways.
To adopt CoreNFC, you need to
declare the corresponding
purpose string and provide the
necessary context.
And this purpose string will be
included in the prompt shown to
the user every time your app
invokes CoreNFC.
Now, let's talk about the watch.
We want your apps to be able to
do more with the watch.
So, this year we're expanding
the use of the microphone.
Today, in iOS 10, your app can
ask for microphone access and
following the users' consent, it
can start recording audio while
in the foreground.
In the new version watchOS, you
will be able to keep recording
while in the background.
And if you stay in the
foreground, you will be able to
use a new API to record audio
without showing the built-in UI.
Because we want users to always
be aware that their microphone
is active, if your app is in the
background, there will be an
indicator on the watch face.
And if the user taps on the
indicator, your app will go in
the foreground.
Let's talk about music.
We want your apps to be able to
take advantage of music and
create great features.
So, part of this experience is
having a frictionless way to
authenticate the user while
respecting their privacy.
So, for example if an app were
to ask for the user's password
to Music, that would be a
privacy concern.
Instead, apps should leverage
the fact that the users are
already signed into Music on
iOS.
And iOS has a built-in mediation
mechanism for giving your apps
access to Music with token.
Following the users consent, you
can get that token, and use it
to access output APIs to
retrieve personalized and
non-personalized information.
For example, search the iTunes
catalog, or get information
about the users' library.
And remember, because you have
control over which apps get this
token, make sure you provide the
necessary context in the purpose
string for the users to
understand what you're going to
do with it.
And now, let's talk about Safari
Controller.
Safari Controller is a great way
for users to browse the web in
your apps.
And in iOS 10, Safari cookies
and website data were available
in SVC instances.
In Safari, we consider instances
in your apps.
This will change.
Now, in iOS 11, users will be
able to use an account to log in
a website in your app.
And perhaps us a different
account if they want to, to log
into the same website in Safari,
or some other app.
And we think that gives users
more control.
Specifically, what this means is
that Safari, in Safari you
consider instances, will have
separate data stores for cookies
and other website's data.
And what this means for you and
your users is that they will
still be able to browse the web
in your app the same way as
before, but they may have to log
in again to some of the sites
they visit.
This is what it looks like.
So, for example, I have
Apple.com cookies in Safari, and
I have different cookies in your
app.
So, this concludes the updates.
At this point I would like to
invite Katie on stage to tell
you all about some exciting new
privacy features that Apple is
launching this year.
Katie.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you, Georgios.
Now, I'm going to focus on some
new privacy features, as well as
provide an update on
differential privacy, that we
introduced last year.
I'm going to start with on
device processing.
Now, on device processing has a
lot of benefits.
One of the first ones is it
enables your functionality to
run anywhere your users are.
Whether they're at the beach,
like this, or on an airplane
flight or even in areas of poor
cellular connectivity.
It also avoids network latency.
As depending on where your users
are, this may take longer than
the actual processing that you
want to accomplish.
The speed of our devices, our
iPhones are iPads, it keeps
increasing and increasing.
The iPhone 7 is 120 times the
processing power of the original
iPhone.
So, think through the different
tasks that you once thought were
not feasible on device and you
should reconsider.
Now, as you all are at the
privacy session, I'm going to
talk a little bit more about the
privacy related benefits of on
device processing.
One of the first ones is access
to user data.
So, there are many different
types of sensitive data on
device.
And when you're clear to your
users about how you plan to use
that data, like for instance if
you tell your users that the
photo that you take, if you
apply a nice halo on it, maybe a
filter, that stays on their
devices until they choose to
share it with another user or
maybe back it up with you.
Then users are going to be more
likely to want to grant you
access to their data.
And feel more comfortable about
it.
On device, you can also take
advantage of all the different
security features that are built
into our platforms.
These are things like data
protection, the keychain that
allow you to more securely take
care of user data without you
having to implement it yourself.
Now in past developer sessions,
they're a great resource for you
to go and learn more about these
security features.
I would encourage you to go
check out "Protecting Secrets
with the Keychain."
It's a great place to start.
Now, when you're using and
keeping the data on device, that
means you don't have to write
code to send that data to your
server.
You don't have to write code to
securely manage and make sure
that that data on your server is
secure.
Now you all now the less code
you have to write, that means
the less bugs.
And the less bugs are less bugs
that an attacker can take
advantage of.
Because a data breach is very
serious.
And there are a lot of
consequences.
But one of the consequences is a
loss of user trust.
Now, technologies like this can
help you avoid that as well.
Now, I'm going to talk about
four new frameworks that allow
you to do these common tasks on
device.
Now, any type of processing that
you do within your app, you can
move to on device.
But here are four frameworks
that make it easier.
The first one is CoreML, Core
Machine Learning.
Now, this allows you to have a
simple interface to load and run
pretrained models.
There are a lot of different
models that it supports, but one
of them is neural networks.
The second framework I'm going
to talk about is VisionKit.
Now, VisionKit allows you to
identify faces within a photo as
well as do scene classification
and group photos by the contents
of the scene and time.
One of the ones that I'm most
excited about is ARKit.
I think augmented reality is a
place where there's lots of
exciting things to come.
And I can't wait to get it in
all of your hands to see what
kind of experiences you guys
create for our users.
Now, ARKit can allow you to
locate the device, as well as
items in the real world.
And then it allows you to
augment on top of the camera
stream.
Now, lastly we have NLP, Natural
Language Processing.
This allows you to identify what
language a customer may have, be
entering text within.
And it also allows you to do
tokenization as well as named
entity recognition.
Now, I'd encourage you to go
check out the talk, "Introducing
CoreML later this afternoon.
This will provide an overview of
the different features available
that you can take advantage of
on device.
Next, I'm going to talk about a
new framework available in iOS
and tvOS.
It's called DeviceCheck.
Now, there are many developers
who are currently using a
variety of techniques to try to
identify devices.
Now, they may be trying to
identify and answer questions
like, has this device received a
free trial?
Has this device participated in
fraudulent activity?
Or, has this advice done
something that is against your
apps developer guidelines?
Now, in order to achieve that
goal many developers, though I'm
sure none of you in this room,
may be collecting lots of
information in order to
associate some state with that
device.
Now, to do that they may be
collecting lots of information
like how is the device set up,
what information is stored on
it.
And these developers may not
want to have this level of
information.
All they want to do is associate
some state with that device in
particular.
Now, device check allows you to
associate state with the device.
And this is done in a privacy
friendly way, that you can
achieve without collecting
unnecessary information.
Now DeviceCheck allows you to
store 2 bits of information as
well as a timestamp associated
with one device.
And this is per team ID.
So, you can store 00, 01, 10, or
11.
And it's up to you to think
about what this means to your
application and your app logic.
Now, this information will be
maintained by Apple through,
until you reset it, or you
update the state.
So, this means it will be stored
by Apple through deletion of
your app, re-instillation of
your app, through erase all
contents and settings, as well
as transfer of that device
between users.
Now, we know users sell devices
to others.
We know they transfer them to
other siblings, or other people
they know.
So, this information will be
maintained through that.
Now, as I mentioned before, it's
up to you figure out what these
states mean to you.
So, an example would be for app
A, if a user has completed a
free trial, they will be
assigned state 01.
Now, you can have a different
app, app B, and that same
information, that same state
that a free trial has been
assigned or completed, could be
assigned 11.
It's up to you to make that
decision.
Now, I want to go through the
flow and make sure you guys
understand how this works in
practice.
So, let's say there's an app
that's a news app.
And like I said before it grants
a 7-day free trial.
So, when my free trial is
completed, the app wants to set
my state, to 01.
So, first thing it's going to do
is query for a device check
token on device.
Send it to their app server and
then via server to server
communication, set the state and
send it to Apple.
So, send over the token and the
state that wants to be set.
So, then I decide, maybe I'm not
a huge fan of that news app
anymore.
I want to delete it.
But then I miss it a couple
weeks later, so I decide I'm
going to reinstall the app.
On launch, that app wants to
decide should I be giving that
user, or that device be given
another free trial?
So, query for the token, send it
to App Server the same way and
this time, query for the state
of the device.
So, then because that device was
last set as 01, it will be sent
back to the app server.
And at that point, it's the
app's job to figure out what to
do next.
Should that device be granted
another free trial?
maybe a shorter trial, or no
trial at all?
It's up to you to make that
decision.
So, as I said before, devices
can transfer between users.
So, let's say I sell my device
to Georgios, because I want a
different phone.
I want a new gold one this time.
So, then Georgios wants to
install the same app.
He likes the same news app.
So, it's going to query for the
token the same way, send it to
its app server.
And then query for the state.
Again, 01 will be returned.
And in this case Georgios has
not bought a free trial.
So, you need to think about how
to handle these type of cases.
Now, make sure that you have a
way that customers can reach
out, or escalate if they are
experiencing issues with this.
And they need to come and reach
out to you, because at Apple we
don't have any idea what these
states correspond to.
So, now I'm going to quickly go
through what a sample query can
look like.
As you can see, here's the
device token, the transaction
ID, which you generate, as well
as a timestamp.
Then, here's the response from
Apple, with the state.
And then, if you want to update
the state, again, have the
device token, your transaction
ID that you generate, as well as
the timestamp and the state you
want to set.
When you're using DeviceCheck,
make sure to think through these
best practices.
Make sure you handle the case
where devices are transferred
between users.
A devices' behavior can change
over time.
Additionally, think about the
recency of the data.
If the state was set a year ago,
maybe that means something
different to you than if it was
this month.
They should be part of your apps
logic, but not the sole source.
And think of how you represent
this state in the UI.
When Georgios goes to launch the
app for the first time, you want
to have a fresh experience for
him.
So, make sure you think through
that.
Now, you should be using
platform supported identifiers.
These are the application
identifier, the vendor
identifier, as well as the
advertising identifier.
We will continue to remove
entropy out of the app sandbox.
And as we have before, we will
continue to identify areas of
entropy and put them either
behind user control or remove
them.
Next, I'm going to talk about
intelligent tracking protection.
This year we're working to
reduce cross web tracking.
Now since the beginning WebKit
and Safari have been leaders in
user privacy.
One example of this is blocking
third-party cookies by default.
Now, I want to get this out
there that intelligent tracking
protection is not about blocking
content.
That's not what this technology
is.
It dynamically detects online
tracking across the sites that a
user visits.
And using an on device
classifier, it will identify
tracking domains.
Once a tracking domain is
identified, then it will isolate
the third-party cookies as well
as website data for that
website.
And then periodically that data
will be purged.
Note, if the user interacts with
that domain, that is taken as a
signal that the user is
interested in that website and
then that website will be white
listed.
So, let's go through an example.
So, if example.com is identified
as a tracker, and the user
visits site one, that embeds
example.com, example.com will
set the cookie foo.
Now, a user gores to site two,
which also embeds example.com,
but here example.com does not
have access to the cookie, foo.
So, then it will set cookie bar.
And then over time, these
cookies will be purged.
Now, no cookies will be deleted
from first party websites.
Additionally, if the user
interacts with your website, via
a click, a tap, entering a form
then it will be white listed.
You should not rely on storage
if the user does not interact
with your website.
And this is an important one to
understand.
If your analytics package relies
on third-party cookies, they may
be affected.
So, what we're trying to achieve
here is that users only have
long-term persistent tracking
and cookies from sites that they
actually intersect with.
The actually interact with.
And then all the other tracking
as the user navigates and visits
websites will be proactively
removed.
Lastly, we have an update on
differential privacy.
So, differential privacy was
launched on iOS and macOS last
year.
Since then, we've collected
millions of privately donated
data per day and it allowed us
to build user features with
privacy.
Now, I want to talk about two
new use cases this year.
The first one is collecting what
data is commonly stored in
HealthKit.
Now, one challenges of working
on sensitive features or
features that have sensitive
data is you want to understand
how those features are being
used.
You want to understand what's
resonating, where users are
falling into issues, or errors
are occurring.
But you know that collecting
data about what they're actually
interacting with may have more
information than you really
need.
So, one example here is if you
collect what type of data, what
data types the user has stored
on their device, things like
blood glucose, things like
workout that could convey other
additional information about
their health, or about any
conditions they have, or how
active they are.
And we don't really need that
level of information.
So, that's why it's so exciting
to have differential privacy at
Apple because we can still get
information to continue to
iterate and build our features,
while respecting user privacy.
So, last year in the privacy
session and developer
conference, Julian did a great
job deep diving into how
differential privacy works at
Apple.
Basically, we collect privatized
donations like emoji, and as
more and more users contribute
these privatized emojis, we
learned what are the most
popular emojis.
But, the key part here is we
learned nothing that's
associated about an individual
user.
For more information about how
differential privacy works at
Apple, I would encourage you all
to look at our session from last
year's developers conference.
So, this year we're applying the
same process to health data
types.
So, we will learn the most
popular health data types, but
with learning nothing about the
individual user.
The second case is trying to
learn websites that either are
very slow, or take up a lot of
battery life.
We all want a fast, speedy web,
but we don't necessarily want to
learn everything that a user is
visiting.
That's a lot of information
about that user depending on
their web searches.
So, this is another example
where we get to use differential
privacy to then reach out to
these developers who maybe had
issues or writing slow sites so
then we can improve the web for
everyone.
Now, in summary, we are all here
today and listening online and
here this week in an effort to
build great features for our
users.
Make something that our users
will love.
think it's fun, or maybe makes
their lives easier, their jobs
easier.
And what I want you to take away
from the past 40 minutes is
several techniques and concepts
that you can apply within your
own app.
The first one is consent and
transparency.
Make sure to think about what
you're saying and your purpose
strings.
And be clear to your users.
Also, adopt, While In Use
location.
Together, we can build a healthy
app ecosystem and DeviceCheck is
part of that.
We want to build a healthy web
for everyone.
And intelligent tracking
protection is a key part of
that.
With differential privacy, we're
building features and learning
how to build better features
while protecting user privacy.
Now, one of the great things
about my job at Apple is I get
to work with a bunch of
different teams and everyone's
working so hard to build
fantastic features and APIs for
you guys to take advantage of
that will make our users be
delighted.
And that same passion I get to
apply and work with great people
to apply to building privacy in
from the start.
And making sure that we all are
building great features and
respecting users' privacy.
And what I want you to take away
from this is a bit of
inspiration.
Go home, work with the teams
that you have and go build great
features that will surprise and
delight, but with user privacy.
[ Applause ]
Now, for more information,
please go to this link.
And we mention a lot of topics
during this talk.
And so, I'd encourage you to go
check out some of these related
sessions, including the CoreML
one that's later this afternoon.
Thank you very much and have a
great developer conference.
[ Applause ]